Assignment 2:
AWS EKS clusters come with default AWS VPC CNI plugin that provides some excellent features like getting an address 
within the VPC subnet range. One limitation of AWS CNI comes from the number of IP addresses and ENI that you can 
assign to the single instance. 
Refer to the (https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-eni.html#AvailableIpPerENI) which shows 
that limit.
In this assignment, to replace AWS VPC CNI (EKS default) with Calico for networking layer. The new EKS cluster should 
have a mixture of spot and on demand node group. Deploy a sample service to illustrate that the cluster is using Calico 
network layer instead of EKS VPC default.
Delivery Outcome:
-Ideally the candidate should have installed Calico networking layer in the kube-system namespace (pods: calico-kubecontroller, calico-node etc). 
-Upon inspection (kubectl get pods –all-namespaces), only kubernetes system pods should be running on AWS VPC private 
IP while the rest of the pods should be running on Calico network (different IP range).


1)Install Calico in the Kubernetes Cluster:

Deploy Calico using Kubernetes manifests. You can use the official Calico manifests available on their GitHub repository.

kubectl apply -f https://docs.projectcalico.org/manifests/calico.yaml

This installs Calico in the kube-system namespace with components like calico-kube-controllers and calico-node.

2)Create EKS Cluster with Spot and On-Demand Node Groups:

Use the AWS CLI or AWS Management Console to create an EKS cluster with both spot and on-demand node groups.

eksctl create cluster --name your-cluster-name --node-type t3.small --nodes 2 --nodes-min 1 --nodes-max 3 --managed

Modify the above command to include spot instances in your node groups. Refer to the eksctl documentation for more details.

3)Deploy a Sample Service:

  Deploy a sample application or service to illustrate that the cluster is using Calico for networking.

# sample-app.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: sample-app
spec:
  replicas: 2
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: sample-app
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: sample-app
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: sample-app
        image: your/sample-app:latest

kubectl apply -f sample-app.yaml

4) Verify Pods Running on Calico Network:

Use the following command to check the status of pods in all namespaces:

kubectl get pods --all-namespaces

Pods from the kube-system namespace should be running on AWS VPC private IP, while pods from other namespaces (like the sample-app) should be running on the Calico network with a different IP range.
This verification ensures that Calico has taken over the networking layer for your EKS cluster.

Release Notes:

The installation of Calico is based on the official Calico manifests and documentation.
The eksctl command may need additional parameters based on your specific requirements.
The sample-app.yaml is a placeholder, and you should replace it with your actual application or service manifest.
Ensure that you thoroughly test these changes in a non-production environment before applying them to a production EKS cluster. Also, keep in mind any potential network policy changes that may be required when switching from AWS VPC CNI to Calico.
Reference IDLE: Visual studio.
